1. What are escape characters, and how do you use them?
Ans:-
Escape charectors are charectors that are used to change the interpretation of of charectors that follows them ,
they add special meaning for immedetly followed charectors , some of excape charectors are as below.
'\n' new line charectors
'\r' carrige return charector
'\t' tab charectors
'\'' single quote charector
'\"' double quote charector
'\\' backslash charectors
and many more

2. What do the escape characters n and t stand for?
Ans:-
in escape charectors , n stands for next line charector , while t stands for tab charector

3. What is the way to include backslash characters in a string?
Ans:-
To use backslash in string we can escape with another backslash as below .
print("this is my backslash: \\") 
 and output will be - this is my backslash: \
 
 4. The string "Howl's Moving Castle" is a correct value. Why isn't the single quote character in the word Howl's not escaped a problem?
 Ans:-
 Beacuse we double quoted the whole string which make python enable to read the data and understand that used single quote on used as epostrophy not a single 
 quote. Other type of quote make python easy to understand string.
 
 5. How do you write a string of newlines if you don't want to use the n character?
Ans:-
We can write a string without using '\'' we can use line countieuation charectors '\' and concatanation oprators'+' is most programming language.

6. What are the values of the given expressions?
'Hello, world!'[1]
'Hello, world!'[0:5]
'Hello, world!'[:5]
'Hello, world!'[3:]
Ans:- For running above function output are as below.
e
Hello
Hello
'lo, world!'

7. What are the values of the following expressions?
'Hello'.upper()
'Hello'.upper().isupper()
'Hello'.upper().lower()
Ans:- After running above code output are as below.
HELLO
True
hello

8. What are the values of the following expressions?
'Remember, remember, the fifth of July.'.split()
'-'.join('There can only one.'.split())

Ans:-
By running above expression outpur will be as below .
'There-can-only-one.'
here we are running first string then split that string and then join with (-)

9. What are the methods for right-justifying, left-justifying, and centering a string?
Ans:-
In python we can use rjust() and ljust and center for justify a string , in python as below.

string="           hello"
string.ljust()
string.rjust()
string.center()

10. What is the best way to remove whitespace characters from the start or end?
Ans:-
We can use strip() function in python to remove whitespace charectors from start to end.
as like -
string="this is rajendra pandey      "
string.strip()





